Project Log

Friday, June 17, 2016
Orlando visited his old lab at Vanderbilt University at demoed Bit in the lab. People were amused by it.


​Sunday June 12, 2016
We realized that Bit would not work in direct sunlight. It appears that the BitReceptor circuit has too high of a gain in the initial transimpedance stage. Direct sunlight is railing the op amp at the first gain stage removing the AC component of the BitBeacon. Initially when we designed the BitReceptor circuit, we had a simple transimpedance stage with a very small feedback resistor. The small feedback resistor provided gain in the first stage, but too much as to not saturate the op amp. The next gain stage has a high pass filter which filters out DC which ends up being from background light (sunlight, nearby lamps, other random IR emitters, etc.). This is our solution to make our photosensor circuit immune to ambient light. Although, it appears we made the gain of the first transimpedance stage too high by using a 22.6k resistor. A few simple tests show that a 1k or 2k resistor would be fine though.

Also, Shadman is starting to work on the PCB for the new BitBeacon circuit. Should be fun!


Saturday, June 11, 2016
Edited the BitBeacon (light emitter circuit). Created a square wave oscillator which feeds into a square wave to sine wave filter circuit. We amplified the sine wave signal and used that signal to drive an NPN transistor which lights the IR LEDs for the BitBeacon. We also created an additional circuit that lights a red LED with the amplified AC sine wave. This gives us visual feedback on whether or not the circuit is oscillating and not just railing.


Wednesday, June 8, 2016
Tested Bit outside. It appears the BitBeacon stops operating outside. Not sure why. We have used outside plenty of times. We did make a very minor modification to Bit since the early Bit demos at night, but still..... Anyways, will need to change the BitBeacon circuit. I’m (Orlando) thinking a square wave oscillator to a square to sine wave filter.


Friday, June 3, 2016
Taking around BME: May need to decrease the light intensity a bit more. Still having trouble differentiating between north and northwest/northeast. Maybe use one less LED to narrow the BitBeacon beam width. Or decrease the buffer zone in the code that delineates north from northwest or northeast.

Maybe if Bit could detect when it’s in a room and act appropriately.

We still have to more or less direct the IR lights. Bit is not ready for follow-me action yet. It still has to be directed 20% of the time or so.

Also, for clearing doors. Maybe if Bit could detect that there is a door open maybe a command “Come through the door.” Then if Bit could determine the best route to take to come through the door and start following the Beacon after that.

Or maybe, when we get into a room and don’t have enough clearance for the light sensors, Bit can switch modes for follow-me. Maybe at that point, it could use the ultrasonic distance sensors.

We definitely need a fuel gauge on Bit to monitor battery voltage and maybe battery voltage vs. performance because we definitely see a difference in performance when the battery is low.


Thursday, June 2, 2016
Shift in baseline — may need to re-baseline after(during) long periods of inactivity.
Also optimize frequency of the BitBeacon with the response time of Bit, the sampling frequency of analogRead(), and the sampling frequency of the baseline period.


Saturday, March 28, 2016
Updated comments and descriptions for Version 0.1.0. of BitController.


Thursday, March 26, 2016
I noticed that with using Bit indoors in BME, that the light intensity probably doesn’t need to be very high. I also noticed that as Bit gets closer to the Beacon, the light intensity should decrease as to decrease the cross-talk between north, east, and west on the BitReceptor. Maybe there should be a feedback between the Beacon and the Receptor to decrease light intensity when Bit gets closer to the BitBeacon.

Bit also needs an obstacle avoiding mechanism.


Wednesday, March 25, 2016
Changing naming conventions. The light source will be known as BitBeacon and
the photodiode circuit will be the BitReceptor.

Added a non-inverting amplifier to BitBeacon to get a higher peak-to-peak
emission from ~5V-4.2V to 1.3V-0.96V for about 3V-3.5V peak-to-peak. Now
using 3 IR LEDs (SFH 4545) and a 6.8 kOhm base resistor. But also swap between
5.6 kOhm to 8.2 kOhm. Average current through each LED is on the order of
33 mA.

Moved C3 from ground to 5V. It appears to make the sine wave generator
much more stable.


Tuesday, March 24, 2016
Moved back to using if/else if/else statements to determine the direction.
This is a change from writing sensor intensity values directly to the motors
with analogWrite. Using if statements appears to be more fluid. The other
method mentioned needs more work.